hi Ben carpenter here I'm going to talk
you through my steps on how to get
sponsored by some company and the
mistakes that people make when applying
so I get asked this question a lot a lot
via private Facebook message on my page
and because I get asked is so much
because I believe that I can offer a
valuable insight I thought I'd just make
a video to refer people to so I believe
I can offer a valuable insight because
number one I am a sponsored athlete but
number two and most importantly I deal
with athlete applications so because I
work for a supplement company I am the
person who often filters applications
from athletes so I can offer insight
from both sides of the coin so number
one when applying for a company make
sure that your email is specific to them
so the number of times that I've had an
email where it said hi my name is dot
dot and at no point does it reference
the company at all what this looks like
is that you've probably got an email
template and you've copied and pasted it
and emailed several companies in one go
this to me is something that I won't
even read to the end of the email if it
looks like a blatant copy and paste job
which they often do it doesn't interest
me I want someone who is desperate to be
sponsored by our brand not someone who's
desperate to be sponsored by any brand
so specifically within this and you'll
be surprised the people that send an
email template and forget to edit it so
whether they email and it's got another
company in the title true story or if
they send an email and in brackets
they've got the bits they should edit
but they forgot to edit so real example
dear
supplement company my name is I'm a
personal trainer I really like product
name as you can imagine the applications
in the arrow farm so make sure it's
specific to the kind
if you've tried their products tell them
why you fry them why you like them etc
etc it will strengthen your application
so number two this is a basic marketing
term rather than talking about what you
do talk about what you can do for them
so hi my name's Ben I'm a personal
trainer I've been doing it for X number
of years I can lift this match my biceps
are this big whatever it is but at no
point to actually say why you're a good
fit for the company so loads of people
can fit a criteria of a good physique
but that doesn't necessarily mean
they're big good brand ambassador so
tell them what you can do for them
whether it's visiting stores whether
it's being able to promote their and
products whatever it is discuss it from
their angle they want to know what you
can do for them they don't necessarily
want to read several paragraphs of a
biography it doesn't interest so talk
about what's in it for them and what you
can do for them number three and
probably the most important social media
pages so if you were hiring an athlete
and two people apply both of them are
fitness models one of them has no social
media page and the other one has 50,000
followers on Twitter and another 50 on
Facebook who is gonna stand out you're
gonna pick the one who's got the captive
audience because they can promote your
products to an audience straight away so
if they say I've tried dis product I
really like it because doc they've got
literally tens to about tens of
thousands of people who are reading that
whereas this person has no social media
following who are they going to promote
the items to they might still have a
role within the company which they had
outline in email but social-media
followings strength in your application
massively so it is even worth building
that up prior to applying because
companies will take you more seriously
because they will believe that you can
promote their products to a greater
degree if you have a social media
following
last one what you do now rather than
what you do in the future so here's an
example email that I've received many
many times over hi I'm the personal
trainer and I might be a fitness model
in six months time I am looking at
competing in the future or I am
qualified to be a personal trainer this
is fine but you've got to talk about
what you can do for the company now
they're not going to hire someone
because you might compete in twelve
months it makes no sense so think of it
like this let's say powerlifting
physique competitions bodybuilding
whatever the sport is take each sport
and then think about how many
federations there are within that sport
so bodybuilding things like NPC the NBF
WBFF whatever it is then within each of
those take the athlete classes then
within each athlete class within each
Federation within each sport you then
have got loads of people competing just
in that so there are loads and loads of
people who compete someone who is
competing that doesn't necessarily mean
anything especially when you say you may
compete in the future so talk about what
you can do now what you're doing in six
months time doesn't necessarily interest
unless it is of particular relevance
what you can do now will make them want
to hire you now if it's strong enough
not hire you in six months time so
cliffnotes
here are your tips when writing an email
make it specific to the company address
the company by name and ideally address
the person who you're sending an email
to number to talk about their products
ie I have used your products I like them
because I'd like this whatever it is it
strengthens your application tell them
what you can do for them don't just give
them a biography of yourself the
biography of yourself is a really easy
way to bore someone who's probably very
very busy they want to know why you will
strengthen their brand they don't just
want to know your life history
next if you have social media pages
supply them don't supply a personal page
when I've requested a social media page
from someone I have had a personal
Facebook page and link back so if we
have an athlete section on the website
we say we've got great new athlete
here's our social media page and some
are clicks on it if it takes them to a
personal page especially especially if
they've got a profile picture of them
being drunk in a nightclub you can
imagine why this is an issue and next
talk about what you can do now don't
talk about what you can do in the future
you're applying to the company now so
they want you to be a good fit now they
don't want to know what you can do in
six months time unless you're applying
for six months time in which case wait
and apply then when you have a strong
application so I hope this has been
helpful if you've got any questions
please feel free to ask them on my
facebook page facebook.com forward slash
Ben carbons personal training all my
twitter page which is VDC carpenter and
thank you for watching right